I believe that our country offers very important advantages especially for international investors who are looking for alternatives to the Asia based production network. Our door is open to all those who have ideas and constructive criticisms for Turkey's growth and strengthening.

I would like to underline that  in 18 years, we have never seen international entrepreneurs as foreign investors. We provide the same opportunities what we provide for our people to all entrepreneurs, who trust Turkey and believe in Turkey's investment environment.
 
We encourage investments that will lead Turkey's technological transformation with high added value from defense industry to food digital economy to health sector.

I say to investors around the world come and realize Turkish hospitality. I want you to know that our respective ministries and the presidential investment office are ready to offer you all the support you need.

As turkey, we have acted in cooperation with the international community. Since the first days of the pandemic, in addition to the UN, we have always been at the forefront of activities in the who G20, Mikta, the Turkic Council, the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, and other international platforms. To date we have provided assistance to 156 countries and 9 international organizations.

We support countries and regions that have food safety problems in the conditions of the pandemic, and carry out special programs in 16 countries for disadvantaged groups, like the elderly, disabled, and orphans in some developing countries. We organize training programs for the production of personal protective materials using local resources.

We are trying to provide budget support to some countries facing economic difficulties due to the pandemic. To date more than 50 Turkish companies have supported more than 20 countries in the fight against the pandemic in various ways.

The 3,6 million Syrians, under our protection, can benefit from health services in our country just like our citizens.

We have supported the debt deferral initiative initiated by the G20 platform of which we are a member from the beginning.

The outside world do not show Turkey's international achievements, and the great change it has experienced within the country fairly. In many cases, our achievements are conveyed in a different way than they are by being ignored and distorted. When the same events happened later in different countries in Europe, the people who taught us about freedom of the press ignored the events. They ignored yellow vests protestors in Paris. They made no mention of the disproportionate interventions of the French Police. They did not make a single critical sentence in the face of the blockade of the media by French State Bodies. We see that a similar double standard repeats in the practices of Israeli Security Forces against Palestinians. Palestinian Children slaughtered in the middle of the street. they are not worthy for news in these independent media outlets. It is truly shameful that media outlets support Islamophobia and Xenophobia. If this attitude is not stopped all mankind will suffer with Europe.
 
As Muslims, this year, we are not only fighting with the pandemic but also the rising hostility for Islam in Western Countries.

As for today, unlawfulness towards Muslims has become an ordinary case in many Western Countries, which are the dishonest supporters of the democracy. In fact, Islam and Muslim hostility have become a policy for the head of state in some European Countries.
 
Fighting with Islamophobia and Xenophobia is our responsibility to our brothers and sisters living in that land. There's no doubt the way to do that is through our unity of power. On the other hand, the more we produce as Islamic Countries, the more we strengthen our economies, the more the weight of our promise will increase.

We have provided medical supplies and equipment to all requesting countries and international organizations without any discriminations. So far, we have provided our assistance to 156 countries and 9 international organizations, including 44 from the Islamic World.
 
Turkey has hosted the largest number of refugees in the world for the last 6 years. We host more than 4 million foreigners, who are mostly Syrians in our country. We also provide humanitarian aid and protection to millions of people in need within Syria, in Idlib and many more.
 
These figures more than the population of many of our major cities, we continue our efforts to make those who seek refuge in our country live in harmony with our society and in a manner worthy of human dignity. We continue these efforts with determination although the promises of support given to us have not been largely kept now, we expect everyone to share responsibility fairly. We first try to ensure our own national security, the safety of life, and property of our own citizens, and then contribute to the stability peace and internal peace of our region.
 
We are doing our best to eliminate the threat of terrorism prevent conflicts and strengthen stability.

We are the only NATO country in Syria that has fought DAESH directly. Although we were left alone, we have captured and sent to back nearly 9 thousand foreign terrorist fighters so far.

We have banned nearly 100,000 people from entering our country, which we have identified their relationships to conflict areas. We made it safe the areas, where terrorists were for more than 411,000 Syrian brothers and sisters to return to their homelands.

Our training and advisory support to the Libyan government of national accord has prevented the country from being dragged into further civil war.

Despite the provocations of Greece, and the Greek administration of Southern Cyprus, we have always been patient about the Eastern Mediterranean issue. We contributed to the end of 30 years of occupation in Nagorno Karabakh.

As Turkey, we are actively contributing to the fight against climate change. Although we have little historical responsibility, in the same way, we take the necessary measures for the protection of ecosystems and biodiversity in our country. With our 16,5 billion dollar investment in the last 5 years, we have ensured that approximately 49 percent of  Turkey's installed power capacity in energy, consists of renewable sources. We produce 63 percent of our electricity from domestic and renewable sources. We rank thirteenth in the world and seventh in Europe in solar installed power.

No country in today's world has the luxury of considering security issues according to geographical distance. The fate of Europe is no longer independent of Africa's and North America's fate is not independent of South America's.

Today, most of the crises that threaten global stability are happening in our region. As Turkey, we are fighting the world's most bloody terrorist organizations at the same time from DAESH to PKK, YPG, from FETO to DHKPC.
 
In all the problems in our region, the attitude of our country is always in favor of being part of the solution, not the problem. With this view, we continue to stand with our friends, and brothers, and sisters, everywhere from Syria to Libya, from the Eastern Mediterranean to the Caucasus.

As a country that has been fighting divisive terrorism for 35 years, we have shown a principled and consistent stance on terrorism that is the greatest threat to global security.

Thanks to these operations, we have cleared more than 8200 square kilometers from terrorism, thanks to the steps we have taken. We have ensured that more than 411,000 Syrian brothers and sisters return home voluntarily and safely. We have significantly eliminated the threat from the PKK, YPG terrorist group, while ending DAESH's dominance of the area.

It is interesting that the terrorists we captured and handed over to foreign security units can make an act of terrorism today.

Unfortunately, Turkey has been left alone not only in its fight against the PKK and DAESH, but also in its fight against foreign terrorist fighters. Likewise, our country has had to deal with almost all of the irregular migration from Syria alone. None of the promises made to our country, which has been hosting 3,6 million Syrian asylum seekers for nearly 9 years have been fulfilled.

As Turkey, we never have an expansionist understanding when dealing with the problems around us. We have no interest in the land sovereignty, internal affairs of any country. We first try to ensure our own national security, the safety of life and property of our own citizens, and then to contribute to the stability peace and internal peace of our region. The Nagorno Karabakh issue is an important example at this point. Thanks to our joint efforts with the Russian Federation, we both ended a hot conflict and contributed to the solution of a problem that has been unsolved for 30 years.

If the hope for a political solution have been increased again in Libya, today Turkey's timely intervention has contributed significantly.

Despite the provocations of Greece and the Greek Administration of Southern Cyprus, we have always been patient on the Eastern Mediterranean issue. With an excuse of solidarity within the union, the EU's accusations of exploration and drilling activities in the Eastern Mediterranean, which we are doing determinedly to protect our own rights and the interests of the Turkish Cypriots are incompatible with history law and facts. We will continue our efforts to end the isolations against the Turkish Cypriots and to share the hydrocarbon resources fairly in the Eastern Mediterranean with the same determination. We have never opposed to dialogue and diplomacy, and we do not our proposal to organize an Eastern Mediterranean conference, which will be attended by the Turkish Cypriots is a manifestation of our will to solve the problem with dialogue. Turkey has always shown a constructive stance to overcome the current problems in the Aegean and Eastern Mediterranean. As a matter of fact in the past months at the initiative of the NATO Secretary General, we have actively and sincerely participated and contributed to the separation talks between our country and Greece under NATO. We also agreed with Greece to restart the process of negotiations on the Aegean issues which took place 4,5 years ago lastly.
 
We cannot afford to ignore the East or the West. We never neglect Asia and Africa, while developing our relations with Europe. We do not see our deepening cooperation with Russia as an alternative to our deep rooted ties with America.

We give great importance to our position within NATO of which we have been a member for 68 years. Turkey's borders are also NATO's borders.
 
Turkey has the will to continue its determined struggle in the face of threats to international security and stability.

We also offered support to 38,000 foreigners from 90 countries, who want to return home from Turkey. We have provided medical supplies to 155 countries and 9 international organizations, that requested help from our country. We did this assistance not as a public diplomacy activity but as a requirement of our faith, culture, and entrepreneurial, and humanitarian foreign policy line.

With our operations in Syria, we not only removed DAESH and PKK, YPG terrorists from our borders, but also ensured the return of our 411,000 Syrian brothers and sisters who had sought refuge in Turkey.

With our presence in Idlib, we have prevented a new humanitarian tragedy, and a great wave of migration. We are housed 4,5 million refugees in our country, and we are caring for many of them in Syria. There is no other country like this in the world. Only Turkey does this. In addition to our presence in Syria, we also continue our efforts for a political solution on the basis of Syria's territorial integrity and political unity.

We weakened the separatist terrorist organization for our operations in Iraq.

We hope that the EU will get rid of the strategic blindness that has driven Turkey away as soon as possible.

Even Turkey wants to it cannot escape the responsibility of its brothers and sisters in the geography which extends from the Balkans to Turkistan, from Africa to the Middle East. Even Turkey wants to it unable to ignore Palestine, Somalia, Yemen, Bosnia, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Arakan. We could not and did not remain silent on the occupation of Azerbaijani territory, where we shared one nation two states principle. Likewise, we will not leave the Palestinian people alone in their honorable fight against all oppression violence and occupation.

Fighting with Islamophobia is a requirement of both our faith and our responsibility to our citizens abroad.

Those who do not declare the slightest sadness for the dozens of our teachers who were martyred by PKK terrorism, who hosted the ringleaders of the YPG in palaces with red carpets have no value in questioning our attitude.

Turkey is one of the most principled determined countries in the world in the fight against terrorism.

We announced to our nation on August 21, the good news that 320 billion cubic meters of natural gas were found in the first two layers of the well under the sea floor, at the end of the test analysis and detailed engineering studies. An additional 85 billion cubic meters were added to the reserve. We discovered thus bringing the total reserve of the Sakarya field in the Danube one region to 405 billion cubic meters. The hydrocarbon resources we discovered are of course very important in economic value because Turkey is a clear importing country in this regard. We import natural gas from Russia, Iran and Azerbaijan, lng ie liquefied natural gas from places such as Algeria, Qatar, Nigeria and America. Even there are small amounts of oil and natural gas coming out in various parts of our country, which is quite inadequate in our total consumption. The reserve we discovered in the black sea is the largest hydrocarbon source of our country to date with these discoveries, which I believe will continue hopefully our country's commitment to the outside in natural gas will be significantly reduced.

We have no interest in any country's right, their law, especially their land. We are only in defense of our own rights. We are determined to use all of our power along with all the ways of diplomacy to make this fight a success.

The way to provide peace and stability in the Eastern Mediterranean is to respect, recognize, and give the rights of Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and we will not allow any other tyranny and plays.

The credibility of the EU had already diminished due to the double standard it has applied to our country at the expense of all the values it has defended so far, and if it does not have a fair stance in the Eastern Mediterranean in the current debates, this will now be officially a declaration of the end of the EU.

Nevertheless, we are in favor of developing and maintaining our political economic and cultural relations that has ancient historical backgrounds with Europe. The only question waiting for an answer here is whether the EU wants it or not.

We responded to the call for support of 154 different countries and 8 international organizations in the world without discrimination positively. Among the states where we support medical equipment and supplies are 46 African countries.
 
Despite logistical difficulties and quarantine measures, our companies in Africa continued to work with dedication during the pandemic period, according to the normalization steps our companies have also accelerated their activities.

Turkish Airlines which flew to 40 countries and 60 points prior to the pandemic restarted its flights to 33 different points in 27 African countries.

Dakar Blaise Diagne International Airport, which opened 3 years ago, is the best example of this Turkish Contractors completed the construction, left by a foreign company for 8 years in 8 months and presented it to the benefit of our Senegalese brothers and sisters.
  
When we took the first steps of the African expansion in 2003, we received many criticisms from inside and outside despite the common history of more than a 1000 years, unfortunately Turkey and Africa seemed very far away from each other. There were many unreal obstacles between our countries. Prejudices prevented the truth we started by first of all by breaking down these prejudices. We have worked to get our African brothers and sisters to know our country more closely and to discover Turkey's potential. We have increased the number of embassies from 12 on the continent to 42, and the number of our trade consultancies to 26. The number of African Embassies in Ankara also increased from 10 to 36 in addition to our diplomatic missions. We have expanded our presence on the continent with our institutions such as TIKA, Yunus Emre Institute, Maarif Foundation, Anadolu Agency, Turkish Airlines. I visited 28 African countries during my presidency. I became the first leader to visit Somalia with my wife in 2011, when the international community ignored the drama of millions of people. We signed trade and economic cooperation agreements with 42 countries and mutual incentive and protection of investments agreements with 30 countries. In addition, we have signed double taxation prevention agreements with 13 countries and a free trade agreement with 5 African countries. As a result of all these efforts, our trade volume reached 26,2 billion dollar in 2019 from 5,4 billion dollar with the African continent in 2003. Our exports to the continent were only 2,1 billion dollar in 2003, compared to 16,6 billion dollar as of 2019. Turkey, which has 1000 year old ancient ties to the continent is the fateful partner of Africans, the essence of our relations with Africa is sincerity, brotherhood, solidarity. We never pursue short term interests. We want to win together, we want to achieve together, we do not approve of wanting to maintain old colonial habits with new methods, as a country without the history of colonialism. We reject the arrogant commanding view of the continent. We see that Azerbaijan is also very determined to liberate its territory. As Turkey, we support Azerbaijan's rightful struggle to reclaim its territory with all our hearts. We call on all countries that defend justice and fairness to support Azerbaijan. Our African friends have always reacted strongly to the occupation especially the Palestinian case. I believe that you will stand with Azerbaijan in liberating Nagorno Karabakh from occupation.

The Republic of Turkey has shown the world that it cares about the rights and interests of Turkish Cypriots like its own rights and interests.

For us, there are 2 dimensions to the Eastern Mediterranean issue. The first one is to protect Turkey's continental shelf rights, and the second one is to guarantee Turkish Cypriots' natural resources rights and interests around the island.

Turkey, the rising star of its region, and the world will compensate for the injustices long suffered by Turkish Cypriots as it achieves its goals.
 
We are determined to continue our struggle until we make the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus an equal and honorable member of the global system politically and economically.

I once again condemn Armenia, which attacked Azerbaijani territory yesterday. Turkey will continue to stand by friend and brother Azerbaijan with all its possibilities and heart. Especially the Minsk Triad, America, Russia, France have not solved this problem for nearly 30 years and they have done their best not to solve this problem. They threaten from time to time, what is the threat is Turkey, here do you have any turkish soldiers here, those who say so are those who carry thousands of truck guns there in our South especially in Northern Syria? 

Mediterranean peace does not come out if Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus are not fairly involved.

Under the name of European solidarity, international law has been ignored. That is why, we started to move forward in our own way since 2018.

We have no interest in anyone's rights, but we cannot let others to be ignored our rights.

Our primary choice is to resolve disputes through dialogue on the basis of international law fairly. For this purpose, we have also said that we are ready for dialogue with Greece especially, without any prerequisites. We also proposed to organize a conference in which all people in the region will attend including Turkish Cypriots about considering all countries rights in the region.
 
We have seen once again the rightness of the thesis that the world is greater than 5. The fate of humanity cannot be left to the minds of limited number of countries in order to prevent the loss of reputation in international organizations. We must first review our mindset institutions and rules.

As Turkey, we have called for cooperation on all international platforms since the first days of the pandemic crisis at the G20 at the Turkic Council in MIKTA, in the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, and on other platforms, we were at the fore of the efforts to combat the pandemic. We reached out to 146 countries and 7 international organizations that requested medical supplies. With our evacuation operations, we have ensured the return of more than 100,000 citizens from 141 countries to their homes. In the same campaigns, more than 5500 foreigners from 67 countries went back to their homeland.

As an international community, we cannot find a permanent solution to the Syrian issue without the same principled attitude towards all terrorist organizations and without a determined stance. This approach is also essential for safe and voluntary returns to Syria. The return of over 411,000 Syrian brothers to the areas we have rescued from the terrorist group in Syria is the clearest indication of this. In the same way, thanks to the regions we have made safe, we have prevented millions of Syrians from leaving their homelands, from various parts of the country, especially Idlib. For years, Turkey has housed nearly 4 million Syrian asylum seekers on its territory, meeting all their needs. We also meet the needs of Syrians in the areas we control, especially in places close to our border. Finally, we are building 10,000 briquette houses for these brothers. In Idlib and elsewhere, we carry out all these activities with our own means and with the support of our people without considerable support from the international community and international organizations. Resolving the conflict in Syria on the basis of the UN Security Council Resolution, 2254 should be a priority for all of us. For this the political process initiated especially under the auspices of the UN, owned and directed by Syrians needs to be successfully concluded. This is the only way Syria can achieve a lasting peace with its territorial integrity and political unity preserved. Until this goal is realized, we are determined to prevent terrorist organizations that are threatening our national security and the political unity and territorial integrity of Syria.

Unfortunately, some states including some European Countries violate the rights of asylum seekers and migrants. It is time for the UN to take a strong stand in the face of these violations that have violated the Geneva Convention and the International Human Rights System. It is also the responsibility of the international community to stop the conflict of Yemen, that is continuing for more than 5 years, and to prevent the humanitarian crisis.

It is our sincere desire for Iraq, not to become a conflict zone for external forces. And also, it is our sincere desire for Iraq, to be in a position that manages stability and prosperity for our region. While we support our neighbor Iraq in all areas, we want to cooperate more closely especially in the fight against terrorism. We expect sincere cooperation from the international community and this country in eradicating the PKK terrorist organization that is staying in Iraq, just like DAESH, clearing the region from terrorist organizations will contribute to the future of Iraq, that is the home to humanitys most ancient geography.

We are in favor of resolving issues related to Iran's Nuclear Program through diplomacy and dialogue considering international law.

As Turkey, we will not support any plan that the Palestinian people do not consent to. The Palestinian issue can only be resolved by the establishment of an independent sovereign and geographically continuous state of Palestine, which has East Jerusalem as its capital on the basis of the 1967 borders. Other than that the search for solutions is futile, one sided, unfair.

Armenia which attacked Azerbaijani territory in July has once again proved to be the biggest obstacle to lasting peace and stability in the South Caucasus.

The Kashmir Issue key to South Asia's stability and peace is still waiting for a solution. We are in favor of resolving this issue through dialogue within the framework of UN resolutions and especially in line with the expectations of the Kashmiri people.

We have no interest in anyone's interests or law in the Eastern Mediterranean or any other region however we cannot allow the rights of our country and the Turkish Cypriot's to be violated and their interests ignored.

It is our priority choice to resolve disputes in accordance with the basis of international law with sincere dialogue.
 
We will never tolerate any imposition harassment attack to the contrary.

As a guarantor country, we have never left the Turkish Cypriot people alone in their rightful case, and we will not leave them an after that. A solution to the Cyprus Issue is only possible by accepting the fact that the Turkish Cypriot people co-own the island. We will support any solution that permanently guarantees the security of the Turkish Cypriot people and their historical and political rights on the island.

Another important issue on which we have to act together is climate change. We see how human interference with the balances of nature can lead to heavy costs. Although we have little historical responsibility at the point reached, as Turkey, we sincerely support this struggle and fulfill our obligations.

While Xenophobia has increased during the pandemic, violent acts against vulnerable people, especially migrants and asylum seekers, have accelerated. The most important responsible for this dangerous acceleration are politicians, who turn to populist discourses for the sake of votes and marginalized ones, that legitimize hate speech by misusing freedom of expression. I urgently invite all international organizations to take more concrete steps in the fight against this mentality.

We showed that we stood with the Iranian people with the medical equipment and relief supplies we sent in the early stages of the pandemic.

Energy is not only the main element of development, but also it is very important for the national sovereignty.

Nearly all chaos, wars conflicts, in the world for the last century, are dependent with energy. Think about what has happened in recent years in Syria, when we were going to the places, where the victim people, were someone directly went for the oil production facilities. We encountered the same situation in Libya. Behind the Eastern Mediterranean issue, there is the fight over the energy resources sharing.

Turkey now has the will and resources to stand on its own without the need of anyone in any field.
 
We will continue not to be interested in others rights, but also we will not let anyone to ignore our rights.
 
As Turkey, we have helped our friends, and brothers, and sisters as well as provide the best health care to our citizens, in the process of fighting the pandemic. We have provided medical assistance and supplies to 137 countries around the world. We managed to get our daily deaths down to 16.

Our main priorities are maintaining Syria's political unity and territorial integrity, establishing peace and finding a lasting political solution to the conflict.
 
As Turkey, we have stood by our Syrian brothers, and sisters, since the beginning of the conflict, regardless of ethnic identity, origin, faith, we welcomed millions of Syrian asylum seeker.
  
While countries, whose opportunities are more than us set quotas for refugees, we welcomed everyone without discrimination. We have carried out comprehensive policies in almost every field from housing to health, from education to social integration, for them. However, in this process, we did not get any support from countries, especially the EU, which define itself as the advocate of democracy and human rights. The promises made to turkey was not kept and our country was left alone.
 
Migrants, who were able to travel to Europe were victims of racist, discriminatory, and hostile policies. Last years, inhumane images on the Turkish - Greek border are an example for some Western Countries to show their view of migrants.

Leaving aside our prejudices about migration, I believe we should see the contribution of migrants to the countries and communities they go to.

We have developed a cooperation model on the basis of win-win, by making clearing agreements through Central Banks with countries where our trade relations are intense.
 
In addition to meeting our own needs, we try to be there for our brothers and sisters.
 
We consider the requests from you as a priority. We are very pleased to see that the necessary solidarity and cooperation has also been established among the council members. The Turkic Council has already proven to be a useful platform to make our cooperation in this area more efficient.

Since the pandemic began, we have ensured the return of more than 25,000 citizens from 64 countries to our country, and we show you the necessary conveniences at the point of flight for the evacuation of your citizens in Turkey. We have decided not to take criminal action against foreigners, who violated visas and residence permits during the measures. I believe that you will provide similar flexibilities within the scope of possible evacuations of Turkish Citizens.

I believe that this epidemic reminds us all of this fact our languages, our religions, our countries are different, but we all have common destiny. None of us have the luxury of implementing protectionist and unilateral policies.
 
The coronavirus pandemic has once again revealed the importance of the spirit of cooperation and reconciliation of the G20.

The Peace Spring Operation we organized in Northern Syria in October, again had very strong support from the state of Pakistan and its people. When dishonest countries, which define themselves democratic and human rights seekers tried to save the terrorists, while Pakistan stood by Turkey in its rightful struggle. We are following Pakistan's efforts in the fight against terrorism. Pakistan is a country that has suffered a lot from instability terrorism and conflict in the region. As a country, which has been the target of the world's most violent organizations, like DAESH, PKK, and FETO, and has been fighting divisive terrorism for 35 years, we understand the challenges facing Pakistan. We will continue to support Pakistan in its fight against terrorism.

Especially in the recent step between Mr Trump and Netanyahu, regarding Jerusalem the plan that was announced as the peace plan of the last century in the Middle East is not a peace plan, but an occupation project.

By claiming Kashmir at the 74. UN General Assembly, we once again revealed our country's sensitivity in this matter.

We consider Pakistan's positive contributions to the Afghanistan peace process very valuable. As Turkey, we provide the necessary support to Pakistan and Afghanistan, both of whom are our brothers in this process.

Turkey's direct investments in Pakistan reach 500 million dollar. I am very pleased that Turkish Companies operate in Pakistan in many areas, like energy, food, cleaning, construction.

We prefer to call it international investment, rather than foreign investment because in our understanding, capital has no nationality, so capital nationalism is not the right approach, We see no difference between international companies investing in Turkey and our own companies. We have opened our doors to anyone who believes in the investment potential of our country and we will continue to open them. We run a model where we grant citizenship to international entrepreneurs in exchange for real estate investment under certain conditions.

It would be very beneficial to implement projects that will connect Pakistan with the Central Asian geography, such as the Turkmenistan, Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, natural gas pipeline, the Turkmenistan, Afghanistan, Pakistan electric power transmission line. Likewise, we know that Turkish Series, which reach hundreds of millions of audiences worldwide are followed with interest in Pakistan. We can further develop our cooperation in the cinema and series sector under the leadership of TRT, our other institutions and companies. I have learned that the Pakistani people prefer Western Countries for treatment. However, it is now needed to change this habit. Turkey has made a great progress in its health infrastructure and has become one of the main destinations of world health tourism. Turkey is far ahead of the West in both service and prices compliance. Last year, we hosted 500,000 people from abroad for the health tourism in our country. The new route of our Pakistani brothers and sisters should be Turkey, which provides you the same treatment services at much more affordable prices and in a friendly environment.

Ukraine is a friendly country for us and also it is a strategic partner. In 2019, our trade increased by 10,2 percent to 4,8 billion dollar. The Turkish Contracting Sector has signed 184 projects in Ukraine, worth a total of 6,2 billion dollar so far. Turkey has become one of the main destinations of Ukraine in health tourism in recent years. Last year, 20,000 people came to our country from Ukraine for treatment. We have also achieved great momentum in the tourism sector. We have removed visas between our countries and made it possible to travel with identity cards. Thus, in 2019, we hosted 1,550,000 Ukrainian tourists in Turkey. During the same period, 217,000 citizens from Turkey visited Ukraine.
 
As Turkey, we have never seen and do not see international entrepreneurs as foreign investors. We see them as global investors and in this way, we provide and will provide the same opportunities that we provide to our own people to entrepreneurs, who trust Turkey and believe in Turkey's investment environment. In the last 17 years, there has been a direct international capital inflow of 220 billion dollar into our economy.

Today, Turkish Airlines, which reaches 126 countries and 328 international flight points, is one of the airlines that flies to the most countries and most international points in the world.

Our 3 billion dollar investment is a manifestation of our country's and our companies' trust in Ukraine.
 
In the last 70 years, we have opened many international works from high speed train lines to airports tunnels, to highways bridges to Tanap, Turkstream, Baku, Tbilisi, Kars railway.

The number of people coming to our country for treatment reached 470 thousand in the first ten months of 2019 from 450 in 2018.

In the field of tourism, we see that we broke our own record in 2019.

We give importance to improving our relations with Senegal, which is both an important partner and a valued friend for Turkey. Turkey, a member of the G20 and an important economic power in its region, is an important market for Senegalese producers. Senegal on the other hand has the potential for a serious re-exportation for Turkish Business. Turkish Contracting Firms have had so far 29 projects worth 775 million dollar in Senegal. I want Senegalese investors to trust Turkey and to believe in Turkey's possible investment environment. Our doors are always open to our Senegalese brothers and sisters, as they are to all investors in the world. Likewise, I know that Senegal's doors are open to Turkish Entrepreneurs.

With Turkey Scholarships, we provide undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral education to 400,500 African students.

Beyond being a friendly and brotherly country, we see Algeria as one of our strategic partners in North Africa. Our country's view of this land is never the product of unilateral enthusiasm for gain. It has not been. We want to produce together, move forward together, enrich together. Turkish Companies have signed 377 projects worth 16,1 billion dollar in Algeria so far. Like others, we are not only selling products to Algeria, but also making long term investments that will provide employment in this. With these investments, Turkish Entrepreneurs offer jobs to approximately 10,000 Algerian brothers and sisters.
 
Mrs Merkel's contributions to Youth Exchange Programs, education and cultural cooperation between Turkey and Germany exceed 25 years. I would like to thank the German Authorities on behalf of my country and my nation for owning our university like the German High School, which has 1,5 centuries history. I especially wish that the Turkish German University would become a symbol of Turkish and German friendship.

The increasing number of international students indicates that Turkey is on its way to becoming a global brand in this field as well. Our number of international students has reached 172,000 from 15,000.

Workings on the establishment of joint universities such as Turkish Japanese University of Science and Technology, Turkish Italian University are continuing in our country.

What happened in Syria, Yemen, Iraq, Libya, once again showed the fateful partnership of the geography we are in.

Not only neighboring countries like us, but also whole Europe, specifcally Germany have been affected by the ongoing conflict in Syria for the past 9 years. If peace is not achieved quickly, in there, the chaos in Libya will affect the entire Mediterranean area.
 
Turkstream is a historical project that we have put a lot of effort into together with our Russian friends, both in the context of our bilateral relations and the energy map in our region. Thanks to the project, 15,75 cubic meters of 31,5 billion cubic meters of natural gas will reach our country directly without any intermediary.
 
Turkey has the 10. largest energy market among OECD countries.

Russia is one of the leading natural gas suppliers in our country. In the past 33 years, we have supplied approximately 400,000 billion cubic meters of natural gas from the Russian Federation. This is the best example of win-win based cooperation, based on the mutual interest of our countries.

We see that European Countries are paying great attention to Russian gas from the second line, under the project. As Turkey, with our investments in recent years, we have reached the infrastructure that will create an important natural gas supply capacity and trade center for the regions's geography together and for ourselves.

A month ago, we officially opened Tanap, one of the most strategic lines of our region, with my dear brother, Azerbaijani president, Aliyev. With Tanap, which is seen as the silk road of energy, we offered 16 billion cubic meters of Azerbaijani natural gas to the benefit of Turkey and Europe in the following years. We plan to increase Tanap's carrying capacity to 24 billion cubic meters and hopefully then to 31 billion cubic meters.

Our goal is to make our country one of the global energy centers. As Turkey, we are definitely not looking for regional tensions and we never have been. The only purpose of our hydrocarbon exploration activities in the Eastern Mediterranean is to protect the interests of our country and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus.

The ongoing tension between our ally. the United States, and our neighbor Iran has reached a point we never desired as Turkey.
 
We do not want Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, or the Gulf Region, where more than 30 percent of the energy trade by sea is carried out to become the scene of custody wars.

The safety of the Iraqi Turkmens is just as important to us as the safety of our own citizens.

We have supported Iraq in all areas in the fight against DAESH and PKK terrorism.

With the understanding that the world is greater than 5, we fight for the common interests of all humanity in all areas. With this understanding, we increased our effectiveness in the world by raising our number of foreign representatives from 242 in 2018 to 246.

We signed the memorandum of understanding on security and military cooperation and the memorandum of understanding on the limitation of maritime jurisdictions with the Libyan Government of National Accord on November 27, 2019.
 
We will continue our efforts towards this country in order to protect the territorial integrity of Iraq and its political unity to fight terrorist organizations to improve investment and trade to protect the rights of Iraqi Turkmens. We have improved our comprehensive cooperation with Qatar, our strategic partner in the Gulf, with the highest level of efforts.

We continued our fight against the extensions of terrorist organizations threatening Turkey abroad, continuously.
 
We have made intensive efforts to improve international and interagency cooperation.

We have worked hard with high level contacts to improve our bilateral relations with places, where we have important relations, such as EU countries, Russia and the United States.

We currently provide scholarships to 16,000 students from all over the world.

 